---
actionText: Get Started â†’
actionLink: /guide/
---

# examining a programmer

For starts, this article thoughts, ideas, and representation is independent of any past, present, or future employers.
My opinions are my own, and I represent myself.

Secondly, these ideas written forth are subject to change (written early Aug 2021). Yet, fundamentals likely stay the
same, some nuances may differ.

Becoming a programmer is a difficult journey. There is no easy button in life, nor in coding. This path will require
dedication, perseverance, and craftspersonship. Your craft is everything. Someone with no craft is empty.
It encompasses your thoughts, feelings, and you *feel* you must prefect it. Which you must.

To be a "no shit" programmer requires obsession. A puzzle that is constantly in your mind. On your drive to the grocery
store, you think of code. On a casual walk through the park, you randomly epiphanized the solution to that problem you
worked on for two days (technology-free walks are a serious matter, this event clears our minds and must happen
exceedingly frequently in the COVID world). When having a "sit-down" conversation with our friends and loved ones, we
think about code. This strains relationships. It's not easy, but at the same time, it's who we are and part of our
blood. It's how we're "wired" and to us, "it is what it is" and we see no other way. To others and to ourselves, we
"live with it". Typically, disregarding those around us and struggling to keep relationships intact rather than keeping
relationships intact and struggling to figure things out.

Nevertheless, in most areas of America (and the world), **who** you know is far more important than **what** you know.
An unfortunate problem technology could certainly solve. LinkedIn attempted it, but it's far from perfection. Human
interaction is the key to success in a career; and what we know as programmers has to surface in the form of
comprehensible language to a person who is non-technical. Making *their* ideas (which are sometimes your own) come to
fruition.

**Being the smartest person in the room means <u>nothing</u>. Being the person that can make the least knowledgeable
person understand said topic; is the smartest person in the room. This means everything.**

The path of "programmer" is **not** a "nine-to-five job" nor should it be. We as programmers have a tremendous
responsibility. We have a passion for *something*. That *something* drives our daily activities. And luckily, that
*something* happens to make a decent amount of money in today's world; yet we seem to be broke most of the time because
we bought 4 new Raspberry Pi's instead of using the 2 we already have. Or something to that effect.

A programmer must care about their craft. Like an artist, their craft is everything. Not something to be bartered, but a
serious internal accountability for perfection. A programmer must obsess over optimization, simplicity, and beauty of
their code. Whilst code is artwork, numbers undermine most of our cleverness. If a snippet of code under-performs
another of **equal** robustness, it no longer has worth.

Code should be readable, like a children's book we are taught as young. Spaced out syntax with readable variables;
rather than "lets smash this as close together as possible because it looks cool" - a programmers craft is a work of
art. That work of art **should** be and **will** be publicly scrutinized. Scrutineer's should be taken seriously and
perceived with open mind. Thus, the circle of self-critical betterment begins.
